Research methodology is a compulsory module for all postgraduate and undergraduate programs at SLIIT. This aims to inculcate skills to acquire new knowledge which is of paramount importance in the field of Information Technology where the body of knowledge grows exponentially. All students must complete a comprehensive research project under the guidance of SLIIT staff members.

Generally undergraduate students work in groups to fulfill this compulsory requirement while masters students take up individual projects. The SLIIT Research Centre, overseen by a committee of senior academics/researchers, provides facilities to carry out staff and student research. It brings together researchers of various outside.

The annual SLIIT Research Symposium is the showcase of research activities, not only confined to SLIIT but open to other researchers of the region as well. The five best research projects from both undergraduate and postgraduate categories are presented at this symposium. The SLIIT Research Symposium is open to any institution activity involved in research in IT and allied disciplines. As for research by academics the latest initiative is providing a substantial research grant scheme. All academics are clustered into a research team headed by a senior researcher.

The senior researchers as the principle investigators are eligible for the SLIIT annual research grants. These grants can be freely utilized for research related purposes such as accessing useful research resources (e.g. online journals) and participation in conferences. SLIIT research seminar sessions will provide all academics a platform to present their research work. The seminar will be organized by a SLIIT research seminar committee which is spearheaded by Head/SLIIT Research Center. This committee organizes workshops to guide SLIIT postgraduate students to improve their skill in research. SLIIT Research center at Malabe Campus provides a good study environment, computer facilities to browse online research articles and is freely available for research discussions.